# Discussion
This survey shows that most rural hospitals in NZ are reliant on POC-cTn at least some of the time (overnight) and most are reliant on POC-cTn 24-hours per day.

Although a significant proportion of hospitals indicated that they have access to high-sensitivity troponin, this was a 'send away' test to a distant laboratory via a courier. This resulted in a signficant time delay in getting a result. Practically this means they are reliant on POC-cTN to make timely clinical decisions.

A number of hospitals are using the manufacturer's cut-off for a positive result. This has been shown to be poorly sensitive in a number of trials and may miss up to 65% of positive troponin when testing with a high-sensitivity assay and 46% of NSTEMI.[@schneiderImprovedSensitivityPoint2013] By reducing the cut-off, you improve this sensitivity and in the case of the Abbott iSTAT assay, capture all NSTEMI events.[@schneiderImprovedSensitivityPoint2013] Reducing the cut-off is endorsed by the Australian Association of Clinical Biochemists.[@simpsonRecommendationsUsePointofCare2016]

This sensitivity can also be improved by combining the cTn result with an objective scoring system and an ECG in an accelerated diagnostic chest pain pathway (ADP).[@aldousComparisonNewPointofcare2014; @than2hDiagnosticProtocol2011] Pushed by increasing pressure on health systems and emergency departments in New Zealand, a NZ Ministry of Health directive in 2014 instructed District Health Boards to adopt ADP. These are now present in most, if not all, urban emergency departments in NZ. While there are data that show that ADP that use POC-cTn are safe in urban emergency departments in low-risk populations,[@aldousComparisonNewPointofcare2014; @than2hDiagnosticProtocol2011] there are no data available for rural populations. Most rural hospitals surveyed were not interpreting their POC-cTn result in an ADP.

Combined with a large number still using the manufacturer's cut-off this may mean that a significant proportion of NSTEMI are missed in rural New Zealand. This rate is currently unknown and any true rate won't be known until there is an accurate definition and way of identifying those people who access rural health services.

To solve this problem, we are planning an observational study implementing an ADP that uses a POC-cTn in rural hospitals and rural general practice. This extends a successful pilot run in primary care in the Waikato. Patients will be categorised into low, intermediate and high risk based on their Emergency Department assessment of chest pain score, their ECG and POC-cTn result. This pathway is expected to miss less than 1% of major adverse cardiac events at 30 days. Low risk patients are eligible to be discharged within 2 hours. Intermediate risk patients are admitted to rural hospitals for further risk assessment, which may necessitate transfer and high-risk patients will be admitted and treated appropriately in direct consultation with cardiology services in most instances.
